The UCL School of Slavonic and East European Studies is
arguably the most important institution of its kind in the world.
It celebrates this year its centenary.
Everyone is a specialist in the region. Everyone is
exceptionally well-travelled in the region.
Given that we are studying one particular part of the word, and given that we often
sort of focus on specific social issues,
it's sort of quite clear that you can’t study these issues from one single disciplinary
perspective.
The world out there isn't neatly divided
into different disciplines.
One of the good things about studying at SSEES is that people are not only a part
of UCL,
which can be sometimes really big, but they also belong to a small community.
One-on-one, the smaller classes we were in with some of the professors that I worked with, they
made a
a big impression on me because they were very learned people, they were
kind of good people, you know they
wanted to share their knowledge, and
it's those kind of smaller groups, those classrooms where you’re working
with individual professors and how that affects you as a person.
My day-to-day life is spent
with the history staff, with fellow history PhDs,
but you come into contact with a whole range of people who are doing
different disciplines, so they’re doing literature, they’re doing economics, they’re doing
modern
foreign policy. SSEES has a very, very
important element to it, which is its
area focus, which goes
hand-in-hand with its
interdisciplinarity. Just being
surrounded by these people talking about ideas, it really broadens your mind
and my research is quite interdisciplinary anyway, so I find it a
really useful stimulus just to make me
think in
other directions, and I really don't think  that I would have got that if I’d just been
in the history department at another
university. Over the course of time my
research shifted quite significantly
away from international relations
and looks much more at sort of migration, sexuality and health,
and this wasn't the result of
my attending
seminars and lectures at SSEES, or at least not only
due to that, but it was sort of talking
to colleagues in the corridors or over
a coffee
in the senior common room, asking what they were working on,
and my interest sort of being piqued and
my research therefore being sent off in
unexpected directions.
Here we believe that language is culture, so
that’s the approach from which we teach the languages. At this point in time,
we may be the only institution in the
world that teaches
18 languages of the region. All the
academics working at
SSEES are obviously fluent in a number of these East European languages
and they incorporate these language skills into their research, and that brings about
very important cultural insights into
whatever discipline
one is engaged in doing research.
The school was founded by several
extraordinary individuals,
among them the three most prominent are Sir Bernard Pares,
Robert Seton-Watson and Tomas
Garrigue Masaryk. Masaryk delivered a very important lecture
in October 1915 on the fate of small
nations of Europe. He later became the
first president
of independent Czechoslovakia. Many
prominent scholars,
politicians, artists, writers
from the region, who were later joined by a
set of extraordinary researchers from
all over the world,
produced a remarkable body of
scholarships over these
100 years and trained a broad range of students.
Among our alumni
we count prime ministers, parliamentarians,
functionaries of many important
international organisations
and many successful business people.